.. _Log in to Educloud through SSH:
04 Log in to Educloud through SSH, in Bash/ Terminal
=================


Open the Command prompt (PC) or Terminal. Log in to Fox using ssh. You may find more information on the USIT page `Fox Account Creation and Login (SSH) <https://www.uio.no/english/services/it/research/platforms/edu-research/help/fox/account-login.md>`_

Terminal view 1::
   
   Last login: Sat Nov  2 10:51:34 on console
   (base) navnesenmaskin@eduroam-193-157-163-121 ~ %



Terminal view 2::
   
   Last login: Sat Nov  2 10:51:34 on console
   (base) navnesen@eduroam-193-157-163-121 ~ % ssh ec-navnesen@fox.educloud.no
   (ec-navnesen@fox.educloud.no) One-Time_Code: 



Terminal view 3::

   Welcome to FOX

      "'~-.       .-~'"
      |   .'"""""'.   |
      \`_"         "_'/
       )             (
       /   0     0   \
      <               >
    .< __.-'. _ .'-.__ >.
      "-.._  (#)  _..-"
           `-:_:-'
   The HPC Cluster in Educloud


# Lag en mappe for pip-arbeidsfiler, for eksempel pip_cache
mkdir -p /fp/projects01/ec367/ragnhsu/pip_cache


# Sett opp miljøvariabler i din shell init fil (f.eks. .bashrc eller .bash_profile)
echo 'export PATH=/fp/projects01/ec367/ragnhsu/pip_cache/bin:$PATH' >> ~/.bashrc
echo 'export PIP_CACHE_DIR=/fp/projects01/ec367/ragnhsu/pip_cache' >> ~/.bashrc
echo 'export PIP_TARGET=/fp/projects01/ec367/ragnhsu/pip_cache' >> ~/.bashrc

# Bruk de nåværende variablene i sesjonen din
source ~/.bashrc

# Aktivér ditt venv
source /fp/projects01/ec367/ragnhsu/venv_transformers/bin/activate

# Installer transformers og torch i venv
pip install transformers
pip install torch




05 What is a Cluster and what about the rest?
=============================================
In this course, we speak a strange language, where we mention words like Cluster, HPC, Transformers and .ggufs like they where regular items from the grocery store. Write a list over concepts that you do not understand. Go in pairs, and discuss the concepts you want to elaborate on. Use google og UiO GPT or an encyclopedia from the library. Do not worry. A few months ago, the teachers of this course did not know what a Nvivia A100 Tensor Core GPU was, and we did not care. Now, we are used to it and interact with the A100 almost every day. When you start working with the AI, you will soon learn the most important concepts.
